What is Java, and why is it platform independent?

so, java is a high-level object oriented programming language and it is a 
platform independent because java compiler converts your java code into bytecode not into 
machine code. which can run on any system with a java virtual machine.

additionally java is widely use for building web applications, desktop applications,
enterprise businesses and games

Explain the concept of Object Oriented Programming (OOP)

What are the main features of Java?

The main features of java is, it is a platform independent, object oriented programming,
fast, secure, and high performance. 

What is Java Virtual Machine (JVM)?

JVM or Java Virtual Machine it is a runtime environment that executes java bytecodes and 
translate it into machine code specific for operating system where the JVM is installed.


What's the difference between JDK, JRE, and JVM?

JDK or java development kit it is a toolkit for java development, It is a toolkit which
developers use.

JRE or Java Runtime Environment it is a Environment use to run Java Programs.

JVM or Java Virtual Machine it is a Engine that executes java bytecodes.

what is class in java?
class in java is a blue print for creating objects it contains states and behaviour.

what is object in java?

An object is an actual instance of a class. Actual thing that contains states and behaviours

What is an exception?

exception in an event that occurs and disrupts the normal workflow of the program. this could happen
if 0 is being divided, accessing null objects or file not found.

How do you handle exceptions in Java?

what is check & unchecked exceptions?

what is Wrapper classes?
it is a classes for primitive datatypes. it is use to treat primitive datatypes as class/object so
it can be used more efficiently.

access vs non-access modifiers

method overloading vs overriding

primitive datatypes vs non primitive datatypes

stack vs heap memory

data vs information

what is algorithm?

what is data structure?

Array vs ArrayList?

what is hashmap? 

what is Stack?

what is queue?

Queue vs Priority Queue

Array/ArrayList vs LinkedList

what is big O notation?

what is linear search

what is binary search?

what is generic?

what is threads?
allows program to run Simultaneously

what is multithreading
enables a program to run multiple threads concurrently.

what is aggregation and composition?
Aggregation - object has a relationship to another object independently.
Composition - Object is part of another object dependently.

what is comparator and comparable?
comparator - it compare itself to another
comparable - it compare two other objects

String vs StringBuilder vs StringBuffer



